Sadia Shaheed: Hi, Linda, how are you?
Brian Beatty: Okay, Welcome. This is session, too. By take 8, 30, I'm. I'm laughing because we've been talking about the discussion for for the last 20 min. Sorry I didn't get that on the recording, but now we're on the recording, and we're talking now about maybe changing the schedule, so that we alleviate the overlap between itech and 40 assignments, and I take a 30 assignments.
Brian Beatty: And so the proposal I'm. Making is that we push everything down a week. In other words.
the first paper in this class wouldn't be due until session
session 6 essentially.
Brian Beatty: and then it would be due again. The next one would be due in session
Brian Beatty: 10, and the next session would be, it would be do and be session a 13,
Brian Beatty: and then we would have
Brian Beatty: we would probably
Brian Beatty: I i'm thinking that it might be better to push the final presentations back a week to just so. There's a little bit more time there.
Stephen Cadette: I I think if you were to push. I'm sorry. Did you say Push
Stephen Cadette: the one from the week of the third to the week of the tenth in April.
Brian Beatty: No.
Stephen Cadette: I'm not. I'm not talking about dates. I'm talking about session numbers.
Stephen Cadette: So yeah, I were you saying, push the ninth to the tenth.
Yeah.
Brian Beatty: So I me, am I? Am I sharing my screen? Yes, I am right. So that means right now. The first paper is due on march first.
Brian Beatty: Okay, so that that means is that the first paper would be due on March Eighth. I believe that's right. I think that's the right date.
Brian Beatty: Just if that's right.
Brian Beatty: Yeah.
Brian Beatty: all right. So that means that means
Brian Beatty: Session 6. Essentially. We'd be doing our first presentations.
Brian Beatty: Okay, and then that means and then we everything moves down a week. So for spring break that doesn't move, then Session 8, which is right now. The first papers doing that second papers on April Fifth. That would become April twelfth.
Brian Beatty: Okay, and then the last small paper which right now is, is required. April 26 would actually be due May. Third.
Brian Beatty: okay? And then, if we continue this down the road, then what what probably would be better is if the draft of the presentations in May would be due on the seventeenth instead of the tenth.
Stephen Cadette: Okay, that's really what that that makes that big of a deal. But
Stephen Cadette: if we move the week of the night to the tenth. That'll overlap with 842.
Stephen Cadette: Not that that matters because it's going to overlap you the way I think.
Brian Beatty: and so that's a little easier to adjust. As a matter of fact, we might end up adjusting a week in 842. Anyway.
Brian Beatty: But let me write that down as a note. So if we do this, yeah, look at 842 over that.
Brian Beatty: Yeah, we can't we can't get rid of everything. But we might. Yeah, it might make sense, because but honestly, that one is got the next couple of a week or 2 extra in that, anyway, because it's it's a there's so many social aspects that we're going to talk about in that class.
Brian Beatty: so it might be enough to move that up a week, and that gives us a little more time for the final project. Maybe that'd be a good idea, anyway.
Brian Beatty: Okay.
Brian Beatty: since you're here live, you get to help make this decision, because I want to make the decision tonight because I have to do a lot of
Brian Beatty: rearranging before next week if we're going to do that.
Brian Beatty: So. So so let's for now. Let's say, okay, we wanna we're gonna move the move them weeks down. And i'll by early next week, probably by before the end of the weekend. I'll have all that adjusted
Brian Beatty: if you have a. If you have a problem with that, you don't want to say anything about it. Now, which you know that's fine. Send me a note.
Brian Beatty: Let me know. We can talk online, or you can just talk to me through the network through the email or the the messaging. And and you know I don't want to make. I don't want to make a change like this if it's going to be a significant issue for anyone. And there's also a way, maybe, of doing something more flexibly. But that's it gets more complicated.
Brian Beatty: Okay. So then the second question is, Would you value a whole whole module a whole week, you know, kind of exploring and doing some activities.
Brian Beatty: and
Brian Beatty: and then
Brian Beatty: activities and
discussion around the use of AI and education
Brian Beatty: as an example of a emerging technology. That is kind of taking
Brian Beatty: taking the high right world by storm. At least we start a lot of our conversations.
Maristella Tapia: Dr. B. I I think that would be really cool.
Maristella Tapia: And I would also suggest, maybe something on like assistive technology at some point, if we can talk about that in any way, shape or form. I'd like to learn more about
Maristella Tapia: at and any emerging technology which you know AI might be an example of a kind of at in some ways, but my students and writing all their essays for them. But yeah it I I just wanted to know if there might be any space, and maybe it's not in this class. Maybe it's somewhere else in the program. But
Maristella Tapia: for you know.
Brian Beatty: So here's what I might do with that. And and this is it's a it's a good suggestion, I think, what it what maybe, could that could be. Is this the session? 13, which is kind of something that didn't it really didn't fit anywhere?
Brian Beatty: I just wanted to make sure we were talking about it. This could be a place where where there's a couple of tracks here and assistive technology could be one of the tracks that week, right where there's some reasons you can pick, you know you can, you know, if you're interested more in personal learning environments
Brian Beatty: to you know. Do these kind of preparations? And then with the the live class i'd we'd have to orchestrate so that we may be doing something that we all can get some benefit from.
Brian Beatty: You know. Maybe we're doing some summarizing, and everybody can hear some of the summaries of what other people have found out about these, because it's important to know about assistive technologies, Even if you're not using them in your classes.
Brian Beatty: Right
Brian Beatty: because they they are, they are. They are important.
Brian Beatty: and I think in many places they would be a considered emerging, because most of us
Brian Beatty: may have. We may have no idea what the system technologies really are, or do, or what it what the capabilities are.
Brian Beatty: so i'll i'll. I'll take a look at that. I have it written down here.
Brian Beatty: and but I think that probably would be where I wouldn't
Brian Beatty: in there.
Brian Beatty: Yeah.
Brian Beatty: I mean, I use the system technologies. I just don't call them assistive technologies.
Brian Beatty: You know that that that that live captioning of the the audio stream that my computer is is going through the that's an assistive technology
Brian Beatty: alright, My use of grammarly, you know, to help me my misspellings. That's an assistant technology.
Brian Beatty: I mean, I I don't. I don't do touch typing the way i'm supposed to, and at least a lot of a lot of mistakes. I guess
Brian Beatty: so.
Brian Beatty: Okay.
Brian Beatty: all right. So what I hear what I think I've heard was that an AI topic would be valued. Yes, yes, I see a lot of yeses. I think that was for that question.
Brian Beatty: right?
Brian Beatty: All right. So then they say one. So. Another decision to make. That is what I where i'd like to see that go, then is next week. Next week is the asynchronous only week. I'm not available for the synchronous meeting next week, and so I think I think that's one that that is
Brian Beatty: is set up well for us to explore either individually or and you could work with other people or things like that, and then we could do more. We could do a lot of asynchronous exchange of information, some reason things that we could do a debrief on that
Brian Beatty: at the start of session. What current session 3, which is where we start talking about content because content is a big part of what AI is helping us with right now.
Brian Beatty: at least, and there are things that many of us are playing around with.
Brian Beatty: So
Brian Beatty: if we do it next week, and we do it asynchronously. Here's what I've Here's what my plan would be. I was working on this earlier today.
Brian Beatty: It's not that one.
Brian Beatty: It's this one.
Brian Beatty: So what I what I what I have here is a Google document that I think this this is what I was thinking about, and you can let me know if you
Brian Beatty: you, you could probably help me refine this or scrap it if it's like, you know it doesn't sound like I want to do that. Basically AI and education. We're exploring this emerging technology together. And the idea here is that you would pick an area to explore
Brian Beatty: during the week. Basically i'm not going to give you necessarily a set of readings. I have a link here to a padlet. That's a collection that one of our you know kind of an informal leader in in the area
Brian Beatty: has been called kind of collaborating these. Someone who works does a lot of social media stuff in in tech at the higher level at least what links to websites, blog posts, articles, you know, different tools and other kinds of things, including other people's, summaries, and you would find it, find a topic you to explore it.
Brian Beatty: and then you would give us a summary of it. Right? So you would. You would figure out a topic we could brainstorm some of these, or you could just come up with your own, or ask others, or ask me if you they couldn't find out whether and you put it put you start a new section. You put your name there, and then you would
Brian Beatty: put a summary in there. Not not a lot, 250 words or less, something like that. And then you would allow other others would read this, and then we would have a a an ongoing discussion and asynchronous discussion, you know, you know, over the next. Really, I guess the the week that that week
Brian Beatty: the preparation would be do some exploration instead of readings to exploration. Then, during the week you you, you put your summary in here, and then we're doing the online discussion, and i'll have a prompt. That kind of takes you back into this as the the source data. And then we talk about it in various places.
Brian Beatty: I just picked up this first one, I said. Well, let's start with what is AI? What is artificial intelligence? I thought, Well, why not ask AI what AI is? And so I I I decided to play around with. Well, how would I cite this? Well, here's the tool I use the link to the tool, and here's the prompt I use, and 250 words or less. What is artificial intelligence?
Brian Beatty: And I put it in here, and I said you, you could do this, as a matter of fact, in your own exploration, to find a summary. But if you do that, then I would want you to also put your own critique in there of the summary.
Brian Beatty: so you can't just rely completely on the AI engine to give you the answers you're looking for. But you have to do some of your own work on it, so that you could do some sort of critique on it. I just did a real simple thing.
Brian Beatty: I thought. And I basically said, Well, you know a good general explanation, you know, kind of especially from a a bit of a computer science.
Brian Beatty: a perspective without getting too technical. Yet it says nothing about the use of the applications in education. So for us it's wouldn't be. This wouldn't be enough. This wouldn't be sufficient for us, because we would want to hear a little bit more about. Well, how is it using education? How has it been using education? What are the implications and those kind of things.
Brian Beatty: And then you would just basically put your topic in here, and then you would put your summary in there, you know. Obviously
Brian Beatty: we use more space, and then by the so, by the end of the week we'd have
Brian Beatty: How many people are in the class participating in 1314.
Brian Beatty: Excuse me, something like that.
Brian Beatty: We'd have 13 or 14 those summary articles, and this would be then our source document for the week that then we would kind of you know. Then that would be something that we would use for. Our Our
Brian Beatty: discussions would kind of come off. Of this.
Brian Beatty: I still have to come up with a prompt. But
Brian Beatty: that's that's what I was. That's what I came up with. That was my
Brian Beatty: initial design thinking on this.
Brian Beatty: So we're basically crowdsourcing the content. And in some ways, maybe even AI sourcing content around AI depend upon how much use tools like that.
Adam Hill (he/him/his): And so, as a result next week would be the AI. We would be you an Async.
Brian Beatty: introducing the topic of data visualization.
Brian Beatty: maybe a little bit more comp maybe better to do with the synchronous meeting
Brian Beatty: then just to do it asynchronous. Only I think it might be more helpful for, for especially if you're not used to thinking about? What is the age of the visualization, and how can we use it, etc.? So you know, i'm more comfortable with this topic as asynchronous than the beginning of data visualization. Quite honestly.
Brian Beatty: any any comments.
Adam Hill (he/him/his): I guess my other question would be so. When, when, when we would send, we, we need to submit our thing by a certain time, and then for us to also review it. And so we're kind of having that asing dialogue
Brian Beatty: 8 am. Thursday next week to have your contribution to the page here.
Brian Beatty: So you you got time that you may have set aside for the live class. You can use that time you can use your prep time for your readings, and but by after like, by by Thursday next week, i'd like it to be available for others to be reading, because the discussion prompt will require you to come back in here, and
Brian Beatty: and I don't exactly sure what it' but it'll be. Draw from what people other people have written, maybe asking questions about it. All those kinds of things. That's probably what i'm gonna do is to ask you. You kind of ask questions to other people, and then look for those for responses throughout the week. So it does have to be here, but it doesn't have to be here.
Brian Beatty: I would say, before the class starts ideally, maybe, but then i'd have to rely on you, having scheduled time to do
Brian Beatty: all the readings, and and sometimes I know that doesn't work out so well. But you should have this time kind of scheduled out. But we weren't going to do a lot class, anyway. But
Brian Beatty: you know, anyway, I think we have to keep some synchronicity to it.
Brian Beatty: So that's what My, that's what my perspective is on it.
Stephen Cadette: And Dr. Bailey, did you say data? Visualization is what had been scheduled? That's 740. Never mind.
Brian Beatty: I got my. I got my my technology classes crossed. Yeah, the the visualizations in in the other class.
Brian Beatty: We're going to do that, too. Yeah, we're going to do that asynchronously. Anyway.
Brian Beatty: I just told you. I don't know that it's that great of an idea, but
it's kind of a it's a circumstance.
Brian Beatty: Yeah. So here we're going to talk about emerging technologies and content which essentially this is a good
Brian Beatty: dive into
Brian Beatty: just in general.
Maristella Tapia: we're generating
Maristella Tapia: having us just kind of explore different options.
Maristella Tapia: And are you saying that you would have us
Maristella Tapia: like, write our own prompts, or are you going to write the prompts? And then we find
Brian Beatty: I I I would allow you to pick a topic.
Brian Beatty: and you can come up with that topic, and you put it in here, and then you do some exploration on it, or you may do some exploration first, and figure out well what's out there?
Brian Beatty: What's interesting to me, and then come in and do a summary of a particular topic. I'm not going to dictate the topics to you. If if you find that someone has already started a topic, or or you do some informal talking to others and say, hey, we're both interested in this. You could do these together.
Brian Beatty: Okay, You do not have to do this completely individually. You can do this together. If you do it in. If you do it together, then I would expect you to be, you know. Maybe you know, since 2 of you are putting effort into it. Maybe it's a little more expanded. I don't know. Maybe there's a video explanation, Whatever you'd want to do
Brian Beatty: that makes sense.
Brian Beatty: But this is not. This is not the kind of assignment I would. I would I would require you to be in a group with, because you, haven't been really talking about that at all.
Brian Beatty: Some assignments, yeah, you' to have to do it as a group, this one that you don't have to
Brian Beatty: the topic related to AI, though. Yes.
Brian Beatty: Good question, Amanda.
Brian Beatty: Yes.
Brian Beatty: because that's what we're doing. We're exploring the the the the overall topic is artificial intelligence and education. AI, and education.
Brian Beatty: And if you go to this pablet, if you, if you look at this oh, actually it is it here? Yeah, here it is, right here.
Brian Beatty: This is a heather brown who was part of the yeah edge of cause community.
Brian Beatty: you know, higher at it, that kind of thing she's been. She's been
Brian Beatty: capturing all of these resources that she's aware of that come to her
and putting them in here. And some of these others are resource hubs themselves
Brian Beatty: different generators. There's a lot of different things you can explore. So you could pick a generator and talk about one of the AI generators, either for text or imagery.
Brian Beatty: or anything else, or maybe some other things. You know there's anyone looked at AI videos.
Brian Beatty: There are tools out there that will do some of this stuff.
There's an AI tool to remove the
the
Stephen Cadette: watermark, the watermark. Yeah, You mentioned it yesterday. The watermarks from photos.
Brian Beatty: Imagine that I mean you could talk about the ethics of a I mean, that's a tool, for example, that you know, you might say. Well, this could be a problem. Watermarks are sometimes, therefore, you know
Brian Beatty: purposes of identity.
Brian Beatty: Right?
Brian Beatty: Say, hey, this is not. This is owned by this or this is provided by this company, and someone removes the watermark. Now
Brian Beatty: you know, kind of their their claim is gone there. And so that's something we need to be concerned about.
Brian Beatty: What about You know? Some of you may be interested more on the policy side of it. Well, what about intellectual property? What about student? You know plagiarism? What you know? What about you know? Should this be allowed, or how would you control for this, or what would you tell students is available, or or how about
the use of it by teachers themselves
Brian Beatty: there you can. We actually looked at today?
Brian Beatty: We asked the AI to give us a marketing plan, for you know a a a a particular project, you know, like
Brian Beatty: 500 words, you know a a summary of a market, and it did actually a pretty good job
Brian Beatty: wouldn't use it.
Brian Beatty: but it might be a good starting point.
Brian Beatty: You know. What about that
Brian Beatty: hypothesis? Yeah. Hypothesis that they're the the Social Annotation Company.
Maristella Tapia: Yeah, I I've used it for some of the articles from last semester. But this is happening Tomorrow you can register. I actually just registered for it.
Maristella Tapia: and I think it's a a conversation
with some
Maristella Tapia: AI scholars regarding you know, how is this impacting higher education? How are
Maristella Tapia: teachers dealing with it? And so on and so forth?
Brian Beatty: Yeah. So hot Topic: yeah. Everybody who's got podcasts in higher education is looking for. Okay, we need an AI segment.
Brian Beatty: Either they've had it or they're gonna have it coming up.
Brian Beatty: So yeah.
Brian Beatty: Okay.
Brian Beatty: all right. So I will. I'll flush that out a little bit more, and i'll move. I'll move the molecules around. I'll create a module for next week that it is AI in education include links in a. You know. You know the the what I expect you to do, and maybe maybe a little video video explanation of that, too.
Brian Beatty: Yeah.
Brian Beatty: publishing. There are. There are a bunch of online sites that use AI to write their articles. I mean, that's pretty clear.
Brian Beatty: It seems like my local newspaper right? Must. It seems like they write articles. I mean, they're talking about stuff. They they don't have a reporter doing this. I know that.
Brian Beatty: All right. Okay.
Brian Beatty: Super.
Brian Beatty: So that's that one.
Brian Beatty: Well.
Brian Beatty: that I thought we would have this done by 725.
Brian Beatty: Let's talk a little bit about some of the topics for today. Today we were going to talk about the ethics and privacy and data, all this stuff with, you know, using and tank and education. And I asked you to read the there was an article on
Brian Beatty: What was it on
Brian Beatty: Jason and's work right? Some of you may have been familiar with that before, or things like that. Let me share that real quickly. Let's see. We're gonna take a break in about 10 min, just for you know, short, short, few minutes. Talk about this for a little bit, and the various other things, some kind of summary summarizing some ideas.
Brian Beatty: What did you find from it? What did you think was interesting? Those kinds of things? And then what we're going to do is do a a a breakout room activity
Brian Beatty: talking about how you evaluate LED Tech now, or have in your context or context, where the gaps are, maybe, and what could what might be done better, especially thinking about the various rubrics that you may have looked at.
Brian Beatty: So what about this? You know you? This is not new. Obviously the tax on social media have been around for a while. We've had some kind of expose kind of things. There's been a few feature movies about it, and you know there are still ongoing, you know, hearings every now and then at the Congressional level and
Brian Beatty: lawsuits it's in the news. Still, relatively frequently
Brian Beatty: is this relevant for you and your work
Brian Beatty: do well. Do you use social media in your in your training of efforts or your your educational efforts in the classroom like with teaching people things? Or does your does your your system use it like your school or your You know you with your parent, community.
Brian Beatty: or your company for any, any inter inter interaction with with
Brian Beatty: employees.
Adam Hill (he/him/his): And do we define social media as like big social media? So things like the big like Instagram Facebook. It
Brian Beatty: Yes, the bigger ones that are that are often
Brian Beatty: drip free free to users. But gather using a lot of data and also basically
Brian Beatty: manipulating basically well designed to attract your attention. Okay.
Brian Beatty: right. Those are really the big companies. I mean, the small ones are probably moving, you know. They would like to do that, too. I mean, that's how they get bought by bigger companies. But
Brian Beatty: yeah, I would say it's more, not the whole, not just the concept of people talking to each other. But the kind of the commercial side of this.
Maristella Tapia: Let's see. Let's go by.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): Yeah, I mean my, my, my work at my school, we our internal Wi-fi firewall blocks.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): all the social media websites. Oh, the big ones right the the little ones, that kind of pop up here and there there's there's you know. It becomes kind of a game of.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): But we make it really clear for students that, like, you know, the computer that they have from school is meant for school work only.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): but you.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): you know they they get around with new websites, Pop it up all the time. We to our we can't like, just stop it. So there's only so much that we can do. So. Then we try to also coach our students that
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): that You know these companies. They know how the brain works. They They've gotten really good at grabbing the attention they can. They're competing for their attention.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): But there's Of course there's only so much we can do there, too, because
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): you know, a lot of students come back to me say like, yeah, it's great. What's the problem. So it's they. They don't have the perspective yet, or the
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): self-control right? And every kid is a little bit different. So some are very aware of this that are going the other way, and then some kids are are
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): when diving right in and being in that world.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): But
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): you know I also see that a lot of the games that they are playing.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): adding more and more social elements. So
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): kids want, you know, if they are playing a game they would love to be in that
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): in the same world, right? So like roadblocks. Minecraft is really good at that. So it does create a sense of community.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): So I think there's something to be gained there. I don't think it's all bad.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): but it's it, you know this stuff is sort of happening.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): you know. I don't want to say in the shadows, but it's definitely outside of supervision of parents and schools like there's.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): you know there's not much we can do with that except really coaching students.
Brian Beatty: Yeah, blocking it inside the the school is one thing around school based computers is one thing, but that doesn't mean that I mean it still can be used even in education, if students are using it with each other.
Brian Beatty: or do an assignment that way, or the teacher uses it with students outside of class. Sometimes that happens, or they have assignments where they have to use these tools, even if they're not using them in school. So it's it. It can be kind of connected from lots of different places. Mari.
Maristella Tapia: Yeah, I was just gonna say that you're asking if it's relevant in our work, and
Maristella Tapia: it it is definitely something that
Maristella Tapia: some of our some instructors use to kind of connect to sort of build community and classes like I know a colleague of mine uses like Instagram.
Maristella Tapia: even in some, for some assignments. She has, like students, you know, post a story cause she teaches literature like post a a a haiku in your story for today, or something like that, and she kind of requires her students to to do to utilize social media in her assignments, and as a means to build community.
Maristella Tapia: And you know I I've asked her about, you know, any push back, she's gotten, and she she does allow students to opt out, but
Maristella Tapia: I think that it's really important for teachers to kind of
Maristella Tapia: be aware of the fact that you know
Maristella Tapia: you're asking
Maristella Tapia: people to kind of potentially put themselves at risk for monitoring and data collection and and data, theft and mining, and all of that stuff, and
Maristella Tapia: and making that be a requirement. Maybe, you know, we might want to reconsider that.
Maristella Tapia: But this definitely I I found this article really really super interesting and also scary, but
Maristella Tapia: it really definitely reminded me of, like the behaviorism talks that we had last semester. And just you know how psychology is used most recently, you know Tik Tok has been in the news because of the Chinese spy balloon and
Maristella Tapia: tik Tok being an app that essentially has the capabilities to spy on. You know your your behavior, and you know your preferences and what you're doing and stuff like that. So I think that this is like
Maristella Tapia: just really an important topic for everybody
Maristella Tapia: to be aware of and think about and and how
Maristella Tapia: we're impacted by.
Maristella Tapia: You know, by these social media data companies really, that
Maristella Tapia: that
Maristella Tapia: are still emerging, like you know, like the article, says that
Maristella Tapia: there are
Maristella Tapia: things at the beginning. People were like not really knowing if there were
Maristella Tapia: harmful side effects of these technologies. But now
Maristella Tapia: for sure, they know that there are, you know, right that that that more and more has come out with regard to like the use of data and manipulation, psychological manipulation, all of that that. And you know self esteem impacts, and all all of those things that that this has on on.
Maristella Tapia: on youth. So.
Maristella Tapia: along with with digital literacy, I think there needs to definitely be a big part of digital literacy that is like social media literacy and like data literacy.
Maristella Tapia: privacy, you know. Conversation
Brian Beatty: Yeah, definitely well. And and the the power of tools like tik to to motivate behavior like in in the news lately around here. There's been the the stories about the you know, the the kids who are shooting people with the gel.
Brian Beatty: the gel cap. It's a tik tok thing, right? So they take a video and they post it. I don't think I think it's a tech talk thing
Brian Beatty: you know that like, or the frozen gel gel.
Brian Beatty: you know, which is a which is a a thing that's been going on for a while. Now it's just kind of hitting the news. So you know it's been going on for a while.
Brian Beatty: Adam.
Adam Hill (he/him/his): Yes, similar to Mari, I, you know, working in higher LED, and with faculty they are designing their courses. A lot of them have assignments
Adam Hill (he/him/his): for which
Adam Hill (he/him/his): they're asking students to do something.
Adam Hill (he/him/his): we on social media, and you know these are all for masters programs. So like like we Recently I worked on a course that was a public health promotion for nurses. So nurses like having nurses, do help promotion
Adam Hill (he/him/his): activities
Adam Hill (he/him/his): by using a social media post. But you see that a lot, because that is also like.
Adam Hill (he/him/his): you know, the the professions that people are going into like, they need to learn how to use it. And so it kind of becomes this: Catch 22 in terms of ethics. Of like
Adam Hill (he/him/his): You need to train future professionals to use social media, because that is going to be the medium for which they need to
Adam Hill (he/him/his): sometimes do their jobs, but also, like the ethical risks that come with that.
Brian Beatty: Yeah, if if you have to give students the option of opting out
Brian Beatty: that auto that ought to raise at least a yellow flag for you
Brian Beatty: that maybe we should. Maybe I really shouldn't be doing this, and maybe if you, if the idea is to get people to be more savvy around using social media or the tools. So for like a blog post.
Brian Beatty: I mean I I When it was first a new, a new thing. I thought I had everybody, you know. Go create a blog, you know. Get a free account somewhere, create a block, share it with all of us, and boom, boom. You could delete it after the semester, and I only did that for one semester.
Brian Beatty: because it was forcing people to use technologies that were with that were outside of the the kind of the protected zone of the university.
Brian Beatty: So to learn how to write a blog, you could use a blog site that's within the protection of the university. Somehow. You know more of a private kind of space. It doesn't have the same kind of public exposure, you know. But if you had, if you had a course like in journalism, or something like that, where that was part of what you had to learn how to do.
Brian Beatty: You? You might manage that differently, you know. Maybe students all have pseudonyms or something like that, and so they don't have to use their real, the real names. They're really emails, or any kind of like anything like that I don't know.
Brian Beatty: But it does raise some questions. I think
Brian Beatty: any other comments on this.
Brian Beatty: All right. Well, let's take a 5 min break when come back. I'm going to ask you about
Brian Beatty: the the Google Terms of service that
Brian Beatty: we'll probably all agree to at some point, and
Brian Beatty: probably nobody has ever read unless they possibly read it before before class and preparation for a discussion. Maybe you have. But let's take 5 min.
Brian Beatty: I'm gonna pause the recording. We'll come back in 5 min and we'll. We'll. We'll talk a little bit more. Then we're gonna go into a breakout.
Brian Beatty: Okay, we're coming back.
Brian Beatty: Anybody out there.
I don't want that.
Brian Beatty: all right. We just had a little break. There.
Brian Beatty: let's talk a little bit about
Brian Beatty: the Google terms of service.
Brian Beatty: And there are the other readings that you can. You know we can talk about some of that if you're interested in talking about it specifically, but I have a question for you.
Brian Beatty: and the question is whether or not you've ever read the Google terms of service.
Brian Beatty: I'm. Assuming that
Brian Beatty: you probably all use this
Brian Beatty: some level, and you may have a school that uses it with students.
Brian Beatty: Right? Any of you. I have Google schools out there, you know, I read, or K. 12. You know, there's a lot of this use out there, and once you once you start using Google, Of course it's really hard not to use
Brian Beatty: a lot of Google.
Brian Beatty: Yeah.
Brian Beatty: Yeah, we've all we all, we all we agree to these stuff, this stuff all the time. Oh, yeah, that's oh, yeah, let's just connect this. You would like us to connect you through your Google account.
Brian Beatty: sure. Why not? It's so convenient. I don't have to log in anymore, or very little thing. It's so convenient, and they really make it that way which tells you there's there's a lot of the data sharing going on, and it's all well, it's sort of it some of times. It's talked about in here. If you go through and look at this.
Brian Beatty: There's a lot of different areas to to kind of explore.
Brian Beatty: Right? What? What's your relationship with Google.
Brian Beatty: you know, using services, all the software all these other things the privacy policy, a whole, another area.
Brian Beatty: the technologies. How do we? How does our technology work? How do we use cookies? How do we use location.
Brian Beatty: How do we use your your credit card numbers, etc., etc.?
Brian Beatty: So
Brian Beatty: if you've read this, what is it? Did you find anything very surprising in this anything that surprised you. Didn't you didn't realize this was in there
Brian Beatty: anything you were uncomfortable with.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): Oh, well, one thing that our our tech director
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): tells our students every year
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): just once, though, is that everything you put in a Google Doc, or a slide, or a spreadsheet, or whatever
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): Google's. So like. If you're writing, let's say a novel, and you prepare to sell it.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): It's not private like they they have access to it. They can do whatever
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): I don't know if that's really true. But
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): you know I I trust I trust him on that.
Brian Beatty: You trust him on that.
Brian Beatty: Where would you look for that in terms of service.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): I guess.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): Like who has ownership, I guess, of the maybe in the FAQ.
Yeah.
Brian Beatty: is there a way to search this? I Haven't looked.
Brian Beatty: There's not a lot of that. FAQ. Is there
Brian Beatty: using services content and Google services your content, I think we may have found it
Brian Beatty: intellectual property rights here.
Brian Beatty: Google contents
Brian Beatty: their contents other content
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): that doesn't really talk about that. So on another page where it says, as acribed
most.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): i'll put this in your check
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): as described in the Google terms of service.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): your content remains yours. We do not claim any ownership of any of your content, including any text data information.
Brian Beatty: That is, that is what I would hope to see there.
Brian Beatty: I don't. I don't think it. I don't think it means they can't use your content to kind of improve their services, and to maybe even train their AI tools to sell those kinds of things.
Brian Beatty: But at least they're telling you that they're not claiming your content as theirs. Is that is that that? So that is, is that not what your technology person was saying.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): Yeah.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): yeah.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): he was saying that, like whatever you put in there.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): you can assume that
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): other people can can get access to it right because of the link sharing. Of course, that makes sense. But he was going as far as saying that, like whatever we put in there, Google owns, they can claim it if they wanted to.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): So
Brian Beatty: doesn't seem like that's what i'm finding here. Yeah, I do. Yeah. And I would say that I don't think that's true. The the second part of that the scariest part of that where you're talking. Well, they own it now is not really true, but that doesn't mean they can't use it
Brian Beatty: right. And and I think there may be more, some more specific language, especially maybe for those specific applications, perhaps, where it talks about specifically how they do have permission to use your data.
Brian Beatty: Linda says. Why are we even? Why do we even care about this? Right? It's just Google.
Brian Beatty: Google's everywhere. You can't get it if you're going to use a computer these days or a smartphone. You're going to be using Google. So you may as well just agree to it. Right?
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): Yeah, I mean. Here's what I just became normal, just kind of sort of accepted. I totally. I know what Linda saying. I think my students are growing up like just in the Google ecosystem. Right? It's just a it's just totally normal like this.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): We don't talk about any danger or anything like that. But here's Here's 1 one way that this could play out
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): that I remember a time like a few years ago, when teachers were really careful to not add last names to spreadsheets.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): but like now I notice that teachers do it all the time.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): especially when we're talking about like admission stuff
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): or
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): behavioral issues, or even health things
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): like it's just it's just in spreadsheets. And these these spreadsheets that are in like Google sheets. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. And so I i'm wondering, like. You know what happened about that, because, you know, now there is a data, you know. Now, like, let's say, some really serious stuff about a student that probably
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): good influence.
Brian Beatty: future decisions, or hiring, or whatever it's it's there, right? Maybe comments on a disciplinary action. Or or, yeah, you know, a advising session or something like that that has sensitive information in all kinds of things. Yeah. Harassment, right? Right?
Brian Beatty: Well, it's one reason why there are some other like the we use a. We use an advising
Brian Beatty: platform here. That is, that is it's it's it's kind of within its own kind of fired world system. So it's not connected that way.
Brian Beatty: but it. But if it
Brian Beatty: if you built something like in the Google, the Google World, right because you could build some really cool systems that way to capture all this data, and you could put passwords on all of that. But still that doesn't mean it's not a stated that's not possibly exposed in some other way. Linda.
Linda Kim: Oh, yeah. So
Linda Kim: I work
Linda Kim: again. I work for a company that's you know, that, like certain design or certain information, it's very sensitive. I work for some. I conduct a company that designs our own products so like that that
Linda Kim: security it, as it security, is very important things. So we have a very strong firewalls, or any restriction on any sort of messengers, or even Google's walked.
Linda Kim: and we can use the search engine by like any Google products. So
Linda Kim: But
Linda Kim: when I first started, this is my, for this is the first company that blocked Google Products or any data sharing or information sharing app. So, and I found myself being very.
Linda Kim: I don't know it was very kind of hard to work around it, because I was like Google, for example, since we're talking about products.
Linda Kim: it was so normal in my life using Google and for anything, not just email for everything. And suddenly this company tells me. Oh, you can't use this any more.
Linda Kim: It was kind of very
Linda Kim: kind of hard to readjust like. Learn how to like. Do my quoteable do my work without Google Products. So, message somebody like, I couldn't do Google chat anymore. I had to email, or I had to use our internal, you know, whatever, so I don't know. So
Brian Beatty: to my point, like it's like quote unquote, so normal for us. This is like
Brian Beatty: Well, it's true for the longest time. I always I always resisted that request to go. Do you want to just sign in with your Google account?
Brian Beatty: And I just said, No, no, no, I'd rather have my own login and password and things like that, and I finally started to give it in a couple of months ago, and then I noticed
Brian Beatty: that you know. Let's say i'm salt lining and signing into an account i'm doing i'm, doing, shopping, or whatever it has to be, you know not surprisingly. Immediately, and all these other applications I may be using. Where advertising is part of the stream. I start seeing the ads for the things I was looking for or related products or things I was looking for 6 months ago.
Brian Beatty: So it's clear that there's so much data
Brian Beatty: data sharing going on that it's almost like. Okay, I guess this is just the way the world is.
Brian Beatty: I don't know if there's a way to not not put yourself in that situation. If you're going to use these kind of technologies to to to manage your life, and they make it so much more convenient in some ways to do the things we want to do.
Brian Beatty: So yeah, for example, we do. You know, when we do, we have. We have kids, and when they have birthday they're they're not. They don't live with us anymore. And so we say, hey, you know, put a list up somewhere, and so we use this app called. I think it's called Elster.
Brian Beatty: It was designed around Christmas giving. But we you do for birthdays. You know all that kind of stuff, and so they put things on there, and of course they can link things right into Amazon.
Brian Beatty: Right? Well, once you start linking into these, these, you know, just click here to purchase it. You know there's a lot of data that's being
Brian Beatty: being collected in past, even if it's it's you know, innocuous. But still it's data that's being shared about you that other people are actually generating revenue from, and that you never see. Of course, your the revenue you get the payback you get, I guess, is the use of the tool. So for convenience.
Stephen Cadette: anything else on how commercials are
Brian Beatty: commercials.
Stephen Cadette: I know. I yeah.
Stephen Cadette: You know you're You're the product
Brian Beatty: for a commercial.
Stephen Cadette: I have billboards ads on.
Stephen Cadette: you know, bus stand.
Stephen Cadette: You're the You're the target. You're the product, and you know you're passing by these things, and you're not making any money from it. But I think that's sort of what selling your data is.
Stephen Cadette: in a way.
Stephen Cadette: anyway. Different conversation.
Brian Beatty: Well, no. But I think you're right? Because what? What is the billboard company? What do they? What? What is the value they provide to the people who pay them
Brian Beatty: your cost, your attend. They they pay. They're They're providing your attention
Brian Beatty: right to the to whatever that message is. As you're driving by.
Brian Beatty: or as you're sitting in a car. Someone else is going by. Yeah, anyway.
Brian Beatty: Yeah, it's it's it's attention.
Brian Beatty: Essentially, it's we you've heard. Probably the term the attention economy.
Brian Beatty: That's exactly what it is right. They're basically paying for your attention. Why, so they can. They can motivate your behavior, and it's usually your behavior to to buy something on a commercial side. But it's not always just buying something. Maybe it's making decisions differently convincing you of a position, a political position or a social position.
Brian Beatty: All that stuff
Brian Beatty: that's what they're paying for, though it's your your attention.
Brian Beatty: That's why you know you sign up for
Brian Beatty: a rewards program at some place you can be sure that that email address you're using is being sold in some list somewhere to someone, for some reason that you're gonna get emails asking you to buy things. It's not just Usually it's not just from that Rewards club, for I don't know Goldstone, ice cream or something like that.
Brian Beatty: Yeah, Adam. And the phones. I think there's a lot that's possible.
Brian Beatty: technically, that most of us have no idea.
Brian Beatty: and unfortunately, sometimes we have to wait until it gets exposed in some way. Then all of a sudden. Oh, my gosh!
Brian Beatty: This is this: we find this has actually been going on for a long, long time
Brian Beatty: with no controls around it.
Maristella Tapia: Okay. I also put in the chat that
Maristella Tapia: and Linda kind of confirmed this: that there's definitely been times that I've been having conversation with my husband, or like a friend of mine, and i'll mention something. And then the next moment i'll open like
Maristella Tapia: my Google like
Maristella Tapia: Browser or my Instagram, and it'll be an AD for something that I was talking about, or like. I'll have a conversation with my husband about going to like on vacation somewhere, and then it'll be like oh, tickets to you know San Diego, or like, or whatever it is that I just mentioned, and I wouldn't have done any searches. I wouldn't have entered this information any other way.
Maristella Tapia: It would literally just be a a a verbal conversation.
Maristella Tapia: verbal, not through technology or with that technology just like in like in the room talking about certain things.
Maristella Tapia: and then
Maristella Tapia: and then you know it'll pop up on like his. Facebook will have something like some AD that was just about something he was talking about earlier or something, and it's not like you searched anything. So I I really wonder you know the extent to which some of these apps.
Maristella Tapia: It can actually
Maristella Tapia: listen in on conversations. I don't i'm not trying to get too conspiratorial, but it's definitely happened, and it's made me wonder how what kind of spine capabilities a lot of these apps have.
Yeah, yeah.
Maristella Tapia: But i'm serious. I I I get the algorithm thing, but it's like it'll just be of an in-person conversation.
Maristella Tapia: And
Maristella Tapia: i'm trying to remember a specific example that was so creepy it was very eerie, and i'm sure other people had examples like this.
Maristella Tapia: Yeah, where it's kinda like. Oh, my husband was talking about like this cooking tool that he wants to buy that has like
Maristella Tapia: it allows you to
Maristella Tapia: kinda like finally, like grade, some kind of like ginger or garlic or other things that are kind of like really like really a pain in the butt to get really finely ground.
Maristella Tapia: and you know, just sort of mentioning it. And then, you know, he opens up his Facebook, and there's an AD for it, or something like it's just. It was something really crazy like that where it's just it's too uncanny.
Brian Beatty: It's too too strange. It has to be true. I don't who knows? Yeah, maybe. And maybe there's a pattern
Brian Beatty: of I don't know words being used or Internet searches or things like that that lead them to believe that. Oh, this person wants it wants a a integrator, something like that. I have no idea. I do know that so more and more devices I have listening capability than ever before. We talk about the Internet of things right, and I find in I don't go out and look for you smart devices.
Brian Beatty: But whenever I, when i'm upgrading things now almost always, there's a smart device option like I. I have a relatively new vehicle, and I can control some things on that vehicle from around the world as long as I'm. Online, and it can communicate to me
Brian Beatty: it can. You know, You know cameras, you know external cameras. I can talk through those they can. They? They capture audio as well. I have a new thermostat in my house which senses when we're home.
Brian Beatty: I don't think it does it through noise, but it it it easily could. You can have voice, control things any any time. Is voice controlled means. It's possible it could actually be listening, and that could be generating data for somebody to use in some way.
Brian Beatty: Yeah, right? And so I have to have a whole new area of apps on my phone. Okay, these are like home home. These are the systems that I can control things at home.
Brian Beatty: I didn't think i'd actually ever ever end up really kind of doing that. But you know you're buying new stuff now like
Brian Beatty: refrigerators stoves all that stuff
Brian Beatty: I do like the fact that I can start my car when i'm in a cold place
Brian Beatty: and have it run for 10 min to warm up.
Brian Beatty: But that's beside the point.
Brian Beatty: So I think the point is that I think that if you're going to be using these these kinds of tools, these kind of actually any of these technologies. Someone should be checking this. Someone should be reading through these at least once.
Brian Beatty: and whether it's you or it's a technology specialist, or if it's a it's a you know, a. You know, higher level like for us. We have a system, level technology group, you know they often will do contracts, and they're supposed to be checking through all this stuff, you know, legally, ethically, accessibility wise, all those kinds of things someone has to be doing that.
Brian Beatty: and if it's not if it's not them, then it may not be getting done. And it might be interesting, especially if you got students. Who are, you know old enough, and have skills enough to understand some of the language in here to have them go through this at some point. Say, Well, this is what this is, what you're agreeing to when you're using this tool. Do you know what that means?
Brian Beatty: Not to scare them, but maybe to make sure that they're hopefully making more informed decisions
Brian Beatty: about what they're using, and how they're using it, what they're using it for. I always just told my kids look anything you type into a computer and send anywhere. You can just assume that it potentially could, could, you know? Go, go, go, you know, go public in some way someone could get access to it to just be aware.
Brian Beatty: don't don't do stuff that you wouldn't want necessarily someone else to see. Someday that you didn't intend to see.
Brian Beatty: Yeah, I think Google has been probably been forced to make this a lot more accessible for people in in in regular language.
Brian Beatty: and if not forced by the course forced by the threat of the the potential threat, perhaps of legal action.
And it's not like I don't think you know
Brian Beatty: I I think I think they've done a lot for people using technology, but you know it's it's still a a business, and they're in the business of making money.
Brian Beatty: and so that's part of what they do is they find ways to re to up, to get revenue, and if we're not paying specifically for it. Then we're paying for it in other ways. It's usually the way it goes. Maybe not always, but it seems to me
Brian Beatty: all right.
Brian Beatty: So just to this to stop. Let's stop this for a moment, and what i'd like to do on this kind of note is, ask you to get into some smaller groups and talk about what your organizations are doing
Brian Beatty: to do this kind of review. How do you review technology that you're going to be using it Doesn't have to be social technology. It could be any kind of technology using to support learning or or really support operations, you know. But there's there's those rubric that have posted
Brian Beatty: we able to access those
Brian Beatty: I know. Sometimes those links were old, but when they came over from Ireland they still had the I learned tang in there.
Brian Beatty: and I'm. I'm not sure. I hope that you were able to get to them
Brian Beatty: if you tried to click them. Yeah, Good
Brian Beatty: as I'm, i'm gonna change those links because the files are actually in the canvas system. Now, I just think it just remembers the old. I learned links.
Brian Beatty: I believe that that's why it's there
Brian Beatty: to clean it up yet.
Brian Beatty: So let's let's do a breakout. So i'm gonna go to the breakout notes Here.
Brian Beatty: let's see where is it probably have to change windows?
Brian Beatty: There it is! What what am I? What am I sharing here?
Nothing.
Brian Beatty: Okay. I'm going to share the screen real quickly.
Brian Beatty: So thank you, Ingred, for participating in the the notes from last week. I I added a few comments to there, for so those of you who are watching the recording and doing this asynchronously. Please add your own notes to our conversation now for session 2 as well, and take a look back if you want to see what I how I commented on it. But
Brian Beatty: I just have 3 questions for you to kind of fill in the blank for you. You can fill in the blank with as many words as you want. But you know this is what i'd like you to talk about. You know in your setting.
Brian Beatty: How do you review educational technology or instructional technology, or just technology that your your your people are going to be using
Brian Beatty: because you probably using similar approaches. For you know, system level technology, you know.
Brian Beatty: admin technology as well as learning technology. Maybe maybe there's a few extra things you might look for for the learning technology. What what should you be paying more attention to? What do you? Where do you think the gaps are.
Brian Beatty: and what are some of the challenges that
Brian Beatty: you have for implementing a more robust review
Brian Beatty: process.
Brian Beatty: evaluating to see whether or not a technology, how a technology will, you know, will be used, or whether it's the right technology for you. And what safeguards might you need around that? What are the risk? Factors? Sometimes you can't minimize or you can't get rid of all the risk for.
Brian Beatty: or you know, data, leakage, or privacy, violations or things like that. Sometimes it's worth more than the risk. But how would you make that?
Brian Beatty: How do you make that decision?
Brian Beatty: Okay? So there's place for 4 groups, and I think we have enough people for 4 groups. So I think we'll have a groups of 3. There might be a group of 2 out there, but that's small enough that you get a chance to talk with we'll. We'll do this for 15 min no more, and we'll come back and debrief for about 10 or 15 min, and that should be that should take us about to the end of the evenings
Brian Beatty: class. Any questions?
Brian Beatty: No questions. Okay? Well, i'm going to pause the recording, and then we'll go into breakout rooms, and i'll start the recording, especially if you remind me to when we come back from our breakout session. The recording so I don't forget.
Brian Beatty: So we're going back from our breakout.
Brian Beatty: 2 groups are still out there chatting.
Brian Beatty: Who was back first. You guys get to go first. Who was that? I don't remember
Brian Beatty: It's like Room 2 is the first group. That's all back.
Brian Beatty: One is partially back here. Here we are.
Brian Beatty: Okay.
Brian Beatty: everyone's back in the main room.
Brian Beatty: We're recording again. Just Fyi. Let's hear from group 2.
Brian Beatty: Make this a little bit easier for me to see your share.
Brian Beatty: Group
Brian Beatty: 2,
Danny Cheng: all right. I will speak for the group 2.
Danny Cheng: So for the first one we're talking about in our settings, we review at Tech currently like from my
from me.
Danny Cheng: I will say I work with the Ssa Registers office. So whenever we are looking at new policy, new
Danny Cheng: technology or process, we're always thinking of first places that could this thing.
Danny Cheng: you know, work with the current policy and protocols for the students data security. Could it work with data, with with the fret out.
Danny Cheng: you know, because student. Piracy is a big thing to our office. That's for me.
Danny Cheng: And Saturday was talking about that. You know she was working with students like, you know. Let's say, with a camera.
Danny Cheng: or maybe you know, they enough. Students might not be feeling comfortable to being front of cameras.
Danny Cheng: and Steve was also talking about that front keys
Danny Cheng: experience. The
Danny Cheng: he is kind of being the person that you know, can actually, in order to keep the cost and lessons goings like you know he he sometimes kind of moving forward, just, you know, allowing students to work with
Danny Cheng: new tech new tech new technologies and not really necessarily focusing on data security. But then focusing on like you know.
Danny Cheng: you, in using this technology to help students have better learning experience.
Danny Cheng: That's from us, from the first one and then the second one we should pay more attention.
Danny Cheng: And I will say for me is that
Danny Cheng: we definitely should pay more attention on testing and also thinking about
Danny Cheng: what could be some possible negative consequences with the technology like whatever. There's a loop host for users.
Danny Cheng: and you know what? If somebody did something this way. Could it be a new problem?
Danny Cheng: And Saturday was talking about, You know, monitoring young
Danny Cheng: learners like you know, younger kids, They're in the classes.
Danny Cheng: and no so like sound with threats around, you know, online.
Danny Cheng: And Steve's talking about like you know how that how the students data could be used, like, you know if the students, their information, are being collected.
Danny Cheng: You know. How are somebody who, having this information, how they we, they, we use it
Brian Beatty: bye.
Danny Cheng: And finally, the last one our challenges to more robust. In in fact, technology valuations for me. I point out that
Danny Cheng: it will be good to whenever there is a new tech, new tag, a new process taking place. So it's a good idea to have a time and space
Danny Cheng: for like a testing and work, even creating a testing environment just before
Danny Cheng: this technology or process take place in the real time, and also having, like, you know, a feature to collect users feedback using those feedback to make improvements.
Brian Beatty: and sadly, a point of something similar, you know, that is, having like a assessment for the process is the process actually working? Do you have a process, and are you using it? And is it effective? Those are 3 good questions to to kind of consider asking. So, Danny, let me ask you, the does the register make its own decisions on adopting technology?
Danny Cheng: Not all of them, unfortunately, but like. Sometimes we will be part of those
Brian Beatty: like meetings, or providing some of the you know recommendations consulting. Yeah.
Brian Beatty: And even when you want to bring in a new technology, if you have to pay for it in particular.
Brian Beatty: There's a whole university process to go through Isn't there.
Danny Cheng: Yeah.
Brian Beatty: So it actually has to go through it. Security Review. It has to go through.
Brian Beatty: It has to have some level of accessibility. Review from the to the Dprc. And places like that. So so the University has tried to put some safeguards in place. So units
Brian Beatty: don't go and kind of like, Go completely rogue, and just get whatever technology they want to use and have it violate all these.
Brian Beatty: You know the guidelines, the rules sometimes the you know the loss, but your your organization is probably more more attuned to Ferpa and related, You know a sense around
Brian Beatty: the date, the use of data, what data can be gathered? How can it be shared, etc.? Because most of most of the rough. So it's just have a very surface level, I think understanding of what purpose is, and actually it's it can get a little complicated.
Brian Beatty: depend upon the technologies and the uses that are involved
Brian Beatty: purpose they
Brian Beatty: but something about student privacy rights.
Brian Beatty: Yeah. So
Brian Beatty: I don't even know what I I just was just reading it the other day, and I
Brian Beatty: I forgot.
Danny Cheng: Well, it's the Federal Government's law about the students privacy. Yeah, right? Right?
Brian Beatty: Okay.
Brian Beatty: Anything else from Group 2,
Brian Beatty: you guys good with all that.
Brian Beatty: Yeah, all that bad behavior online that stuff happens. It's a they don't make that stuff up. It happens, and you may not think it's going to happen in your situation with your students at your school, and you know until it does, and it's it's often very supervisor. Wow.
Brian Beatty: Did not expect that.
Brian Beatty: Let's go up to group one.
Brian Beatty: Here's the names to remind you in the Joanna that right?
Brian Beatty: Who's your? Who's your spokesperson?
Everett Estkowski: I
Everett Estkowski: I wouldn't write much for the first one.
Brian Beatty: Joanna might want to talk about it a little bit. She's up for it. So this is why I ask every group pick someone to start talking.
Brian Beatty: and almost no one ever does. That's okay.
Brian Beatty: Group one.
Everett Estkowski: So
Everett Estkowski: did you? What was it here? Excuse me, I can. I can start I can mention.
Everett Estkowski: We start radio. I just let you know bad radio here.
some functionality
Everett Estkowski: tools that are easy to use.
Everett Estkowski: user friendly
Everett Estkowski: for students and instructors to use and accessibility accessible to the students, free of charge or requiring extra fees.
Everett Estkowski: So
Everett Estkowski: for the second one we started getting into the security and
Everett Estkowski: ethics of data collection.
Everett Estkowski: I was thinking what it's used for. You know we were just talking about potentially, you being used to manipulate people without their knowledge of it
Everett Estkowski: that right there something to address and talk about, and maybe even come up with laws for the these things. So
Everett Estkowski: I I thought that that's paying more attention to it and the challenges, you know addressing it? You know it's it's cost labor resources.
Everett Estkowski: and
Everett Estkowski: you know, bringing it to the public's attention. How do you do that, you know, like you said sometimes by the time it gets to the news it's already been
Brian Beatty: around for a while. But
Everett Estkowski: so
Brian Beatty: imagine how difficult this is for someone who's got oversight over this, I mean, think of we. We expect our, you know, our Federal Government or State governments to protect just in ways. But imagine how difficult that is for them to actually. Do
Brian Beatty: you know, the stuff we hear about is big picture stuff, and i'm not saying it's not important. But there's so much other stuff that happens that they're not even they're probably not even aware of why, because it hasn't come up in their hearings because they haven't thought to ask for, because they don't really know what the tech people are doing.
Brian Beatty: Maybe that's a negative perspective on it.
Brian Beatty: Anything else? How about how about Section 3 here
Brian Beatty: challenges?
Linda Kim: I can. I can. Okay. So tying back to your comment after video like, who's gonna do all that right? So that's so. That's where we, you know, Start talking about it. The costs or general resources in general like. Is that realistic?
Linda Kim: To be honest. I mean to the certain point, maybe, but you know, to have like a like at the perfect world kind of thing. It may be a little bit hard to bring it to reality, because all that right?
Right?
Linda Kim: So that's
Linda Kim: the perfect for all people like to
Linda Kim: right.
Brian Beatty: Okay, thank you. Group one. Let's move on to group 4.
Maristella Tapia: We'll do the group 3 last.
Maristella Tapia: So it's just Amanda and myself in our group, and it took a while for us to answer this question, because the reality is is that
Maristella Tapia: these decisions are pretty far removed from most from teachers and faculty at both of our institutions. And so
Maristella Tapia: I did I. The more I thought about it. I do realize that we're part of a consortium of community colleges that make decisions about what kinds of, for example, to switch to canvas, or, you know.
Maristella Tapia: web conferencing like zoom and other app integrations that are used in canvas things like
Maristella Tapia: turn it in and stuff like that.
Maristella Tapia: And so those a lot of those decisions are made at the Chancellor level of like, you know, there's like a Chancellor of instructional technology or a chance or online learning. And
Maristella Tapia: so all of those decisions tend to be made at like that really higher level. And then the community colleges just tend to adopt what has been approved and vetted. But the most recent conversation I remember having that that was more kind of
Maristella Tapia: in the realm of faculty, decision making and and debate was the use of a software called Proctorio, and
Maristella Tapia: that software got a very like, you know our our
Maristella Tapia: our college was up to renew if the license
Maristella Tapia: and many faculty started to say that it, like factorial, is kind of racist, because it doesn't really do a good job of recognizing
Maristella Tapia: faces that are non-white, and and so it can flag, for example, like
Maristella Tapia: a person.
Maristella Tapia: for you know
Maristella Tapia: it like it's, it's so it's a it's a. It's a surveillance software where students record themselves taking an exam.
Maristella Tapia: And so the the you know there are problems with it differentiating between different faces in terms of race, but also
Maristella Tapia: it's especially difficult, because, like, if you know in multi person households.
Maristella Tapia: you know, it can flag
Maristella Tapia: a test If somebody walks into a room, you know, if you're taking it and and other things. So people just kind of were saying that it was very non equitable like it was just. You know it had the bill. That
Maristella Tapia: effect of essentially discriminating against you know, lower income households, non white households. Even people who have certain disabilities who might, you know, move
Maristella Tapia: slowly or differently, because it kind of monitors like movement. And then also just in general kind of violated student privacy.
Maristella Tapia: So that was one thing.
Maristella Tapia: Amanda also said, Can you scroll down that?
Maristella Tapia: Yeah. Her institution, as far as she knows, like a lot of the tech decisions, are poorly kind of maintained, like students, lose some of their devices all the time, and can get new ones without really having to go through much of a process.
Maristella Tapia: And then we talked about. We hope they would pay attention to privacy, protections, and intellectual property rights like, I think there was also a discussion around. Turn it in, and how turn it in actually does own papers that are turned in. There's some kind of clause about that or something that
Maristella Tapia: did you hear that?
Maristella Tapia: They? I I know they use. They use those papers to improve their service
Maristella Tapia: right, and and they they they store them as part of their database right that they compare other work against.
Maristella Tapia: so there may be some limited use language.
Brian Beatty: I don't think it would be like they can take it and republish it as if it was their own, and that I don't think they would really do that. That's not that what they want, but they need to be able to use it. Just like all of these other tools we use that we're putting. We're putting information into almost all of them say we can use that data, however, we want, and we don't have to even tell you how we're using it, and we don't have to give you the results of whatever we're doing it for
Brian Beatty: that. That's that's the that's the the the negative kind of slant for their language. But essentially I believe that's what a lot of it's saying.
Brian Beatty: Go ahead!
Maristella Tapia: And then the last question, i'm sorry I didn't take any notes on it. But we were talking, and we mentioned a lot of the things that have already been brought up. But one thing that we talked about was just the lack of of knowledge around on technology, kind of
Maristella Tapia: terms of service and and the importance of reviewing those things and the lack around
Maristella Tapia: understanding how data is used in privacy. Just a general understanding of
Maristella Tapia: those those things surrounding technology is super important, because when only a small group of people in the institution have access to that, or know that, then there can't really be a robust discussion around vetting technology like there was with Proctorial, you know, just took a few faculty members to like.
Maristella Tapia: It takes students to tell faculty members like this has been my experience of Procter, and it's been really awful. And then for for faculty to kind of dig into that for it to become something that we had control over deciding whether or not we were going to move forward with it as an institution.
Maristella Tapia: So that was one of I would. I'll just add that as something that Hasn't really
Brian Beatty: been talk too much about it's just we may want to, you know, if you're interested in talking about that we could even bring that out in the discussion Forum. Because, you know, the question for me is, Why?
Brian Beatty: Why? Why?
Brian Beatty: You know it's so easy for faculty to use almost any technology that's not costing much or anything, and it's so easy just to click through and agree to everything. They make it easy to do it, especially if they're grabbing data in some way that you have to. They have to
Brian Beatty: have you tell them. Yes, I've read the terms of service, and I agree to them, whatever it happens to be, but they make it so easy that almost nobody reads that stuff.
Brian Beatty: And the question might be, Why, why don't we care about it?
Brian Beatty: And so that would be, I think, something that would be might be interesting to unpack a little bit more in the online discussion, because I think there's some interesting things we could say about that with the having with, you know, the invisibility of the consequences of
Brian Beatty: of you know, bad behavior with data, or so far removed from potential consequences, either in time or that levels of interaction that we don't even know about it kind of like. An there's an economic conversation there.
Brian Beatty: Alright, but that's for another time.
How about Group 3?
Brian Beatty: Take you Group 4.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): Yeah. We have a lot of similar things from the school perspective from from way and I and then
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): and then Adam shared from his a tech consulting company.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): Adam, do you want? Do you want to speak to this?
Adam Hill (he/him/his): Yeah, I can just say like, because we are provide. My My company provides a lot of services to other universities to them bring their programs online. So a lot of what we're thinking of is like, Of course, the cost.
Adam Hill (he/him/his): and especially the cost at scale and then like, Can this product scale as another thing? And then privacy is also huge, because a breach of privacy, when we're providing this service to a lot of people could have
Adam Hill (he/him/his): a huge impact on.
Adam Hill (he/him/his): And then another thing that's big is just like Lti compatibility can. This
Adam Hill (he/him/his): is this compatible with all other lms.
Adam Hill (he/him/his): I think one thing that we also were interested in is like this idea of digital equity, and, like are the products ex only accessible to people with high speed Internet
Adam Hill (he/him/his): on. And I think that we we were talking about how, with way in Dalton, how that really came to bear when you're teaching everyone's teaching remotely that some students were able to access zoom easily and others not on.
Adam Hill (he/him/his): And then and then that brought up the question for me. Dr. B. Like will is that is digital equity and access to broadband and kind of those issues around emerging technology. Something we'll be discussing as well
Adam Hill (he/him/his): cool.
Brian Beatty: Bring it up.
Adam Hill (he/him/his): Okay, great. And then, yeah, Dalton, I don't know where where we from there. Yeah, I mean it's what you know. This. This is having a lot of my experience, where
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): questions of review only happen when there is a crisis when there's like a big problem, or if there is major stakeholder complaint usually from the parents, or from the board, or something like that.
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): But you know, like Dr. Beer was saying, is like, If something is free and
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): like we can, we we can get access to it. It's game on like teachers. We use, whatever the kids we use, whatever so, and and and there's no there's no review. I think the review
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): maybe it takes place in my context, like if we were about to buy a service, and we would review the the vendors. But I, you know, I think what was some somebody was in. My Stella was saying earlier that, like
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): it's
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): we're we're teachers that we're kind of removed from this process a bit, I mean. Sometimes it's like a committee, or they will make like some kind of task force, but
Dalton Lobo Dias (he/him): it's not something that we do.
Brian Beatty: It's true, but you have the power essentially to bring technologies in for your students to use, even if even if you know you're supposed to have permission. Sometimes, you know, teachers often can do it without that.
Brian Beatty: It may not. It's not ethical in that situation, but it still happens, it certainly can happen.
Adam Hill (he/him/his): It. It also makes you think about like the ways that other large, large corporate entities and foundations have an impact on this, like my friend works for a company that does computer science education
Adam Hill (he/him/his): that I think they provide the education for free to schools. But it's all funded by for Verizon. So Verizon, once that once like, has an interest in it, and like the way this is that corporate interests
Adam Hill (he/him/his): can have this underlying way of like providing something for free. And so you'll just take it. But what are what's happening underneath that?
Brian Beatty: Yeah.
Brian Beatty: Well, 20 years ago one of the biggest push for the big one of the big push is for for e-learning. The acceptance of e learning as an acceptable way of doing training
Brian Beatty: was from companies like oracle.
Brian Beatty: You know, Larry Ellison used to get on his soap. So yeah, the next killer app is e-learning. Why, well, basically let's dump a whole lot more traffic over the Internet so that you have to kind of upgrade all of your network switches and technologies. And guess who's going to sell those to you? Not Oracle?
Brian Beatty: Who is that working Cisco Cisco. I don't know who I don't know who that. Oh, who's that? Who's Cisco? I don't like whoever it was.
Brian Beatty: Anyway, I thought, Well, yeah, that's that's a little self serving. But I get it. I worked in e learning at the time. So I thought, yeah.
Brian Beatty: let's. Let's do the next killer app e-learning.
Okay, Anything else here
Brian Beatty: around there.
Brian Beatty: Yeah.
Adam Hill (he/him/his): I think most of everything else we thought
Adam Hill (he/him/his): we covered. I think the other thing we're just talking about is like the piloting and pro like
Adam Hill (he/him/his): the piloting and testing process. When you do have control at us at a very local level, even like as a teacher can be
Adam Hill (he/him/his): really cumbersome. And so it's also just like easy. When your district just hand you something or your school to and you something
Brian Beatty: right?
Brian Beatty: Yeah. So if you are in that kind of role, or you ever find yourself in that kind of role, being some one of those people who's checking things out for a larger group of institutions, or even just faculty to use it, could be at a campus level.
Brian Beatty: It could be a at a, you know, a a particular unit in a business.
Brian Beatty: or it could be at a system level. That's a lot of responsibility.
Brian Beatty: And you have you have You have a you have a responsibility, and you might even have some exposure there, legally. Depend upon the situation, you know, because things happen, and sometimes things happen, and there's big consequences. Not, you know. Sometimes they're financial. Sometimes they're more social.
Brian Beatty: right like, you know.
Brian Beatty: the position of a or institution in in the in the world around them in their environment, in their context, in their communities
Brian Beatty: that can have
Brian Beatty: long term ramifications Big it it's it's it's a big deal can be a big deal. So one of the things that I ask you whenever you write a paper in this class and talk about using these technologies, especially the newer technologies
Brian Beatty: is, i'm gonna ask you to, You know, address to some extent at least, these issues of you know, a ethics around or the wrong data, the use of data. The collection of data security costs accessibility. Those kinds of things. You may not know a lot about it, but it is something I want you to at least
Brian Beatty: consider and talk a little bit about it, as you're going to give us an overview of the summary. I think it's an important thing that I just want to reinforce, that it's. It's our responsibility at some level. If we're going to be exposing their students to these.
Brian Beatty: and even if your district is using a tool, they say, oh, yeah, this is fine. No problem, if you know you got concerns about it, and they are legitimate concerns.
Brian Beatty: you know. Maybe you don't use that tool.
Brian Beatty: I mean, there are some tools we use here on campus that I I don't use because I don't like the way I don't like either like I don't need the functionality, or I don't think I need it with with the way I teach. But also maybe i'm not. I'm not so happy about the way it it handles things.
Brian Beatty: So
Brian Beatty: there you go.
Brian Beatty: Let's
Brian Beatty: let's break. Now we'll come back
Brian Beatty: in person in 2 weeks.
Brian Beatty: But online we're we're gonna do the reorganization of the the website, one of the next, either Thursday or Friday. And so by the week. And it should be reorganized a little bit. We'll we'll do the things we talked about. And then next week we'll be doing the AI focus topic all asynchronously. I still think it'll be. I think it'd be very interesting.
Brian Beatty: really looking forward to that.
Brian Beatty: And i'm talking to my colleagues at other institutions, though, about these some of these ideas, and and I'll i'm gonna, you know, if we you know. Maybe i'll let them know that I've been doing this with some grad students, and
Brian Beatty: and I don't think we'll have anything I'm going to share with them, of course, but I give them. Maybe maybe we come up with some great ideas
Brian Beatty: now that we can share in our community.
Brian Beatty: and you can share in your community.
Brian Beatty: you can be on the cutting edge. Oh, yeah, I know that
Brian Beatty: that person.
Brian Beatty: She's always on the cutting edge of this. She knows all about. AI.
Brian Beatty: So there you go. Any any final comments or questions.
Brian Beatty: all right for those of you who listen to the very end. Please participate in our breakout room notes. Add your name to that, and we'll see you online in the forums as well
Brian Beatty: so long.
Brian Beatty: Thank you, Bye, bye.